To select a different window, click with Mouse-1 on its mode line. With the
keyboard, you can switch windows by typing C-x o (other-window). That is an o,
for `other', not a zero. When there are more than two windows, this command
moves through all the windows in a cyclic order, generally top to bottom and
left to right. After the rightmost and bottommost window, it goes back to
the one at the upper left corner. A numeric argument means to move several
steps in the cyclic order of windows. A negative argument moves around the
cycle in the opposite order. When the minibuffer is active, the minibuffer
is the last window in the cycle; you can switch from the minibuffer window
to one of the other windows, and later switch back and finish supplying the
minibuffer argument that is requested. See section Editing in the Minibuffer.
The usual scrolling commands (see section Controlling the Display) apply to
the selected window only, but there is one command to scroll the next window.
C-M-v (scroll-other-window) scrolls the window that C-x o would select. It takes
arguments, positive and negative, like C-v. (In the minibuffer, C-M-v scrolls
the window that contains the minibuffer help display, if any, rather than the
next window in the standard cyclic order.) The command M-x compare-windows lets
you compare two files or buffers visible in two windows, by moving through them
to the next mismatch. See section Comparing Files, for details. Displaying
in Another Window C-x 4 is a prefix key for commands that select another
window (splitting the window if there is only one) and select a buffer in that
window. Different C-x 4 commands have different ways of finding the buffer to
select. C-x 4 b bufname RET Select buffer bufname in another window. This runs
switch-to-buffer-other-window. C-x 4 C-o bufname RET Display buffer bufname
in another window, but don't select that buffer or that window. This runs
display-buffer. C-x 4 f filename RET Visit file filename and select its buffer
in another window. This runs find-file-other-window. See section Visiting
Files. C-x 4 d directory RET Select a Dired buffer for directory directory in
another window. This runs dired-other-window. See section Dired, the Directory
Editor. C-x 4 m Start composing a mail message in another window. This runs
mail-other-window; its same-window analogue is C-x m (see section Sending
Mail). C-x 4 . Find a tag in the current tags table, in another window. This
runs find-tag-other-window, the multiple-window variant of M-. (see section
Tags Tables). C-x 4 r filename RET Visit file filename read-only, and select
its buffer in another window. This runs find-file-read-only-other-window.
See section Visiting Files. Forcing Display in the Same Window Certain Emacs
commands switch to a specific buffer with special contents. For example, M-x
shell switches to a buffer named `*Shell*'. By convention, all these commands
are written to pop up the buffer in a separate window. But you can specify
that certain of these buffers should appear in the selected window. If you add
a buffer name to the list same-window-buffer-names, the effect is that such
commands display that particular buffer by switching to it in the selected
window. For example, if you add the element "*grep*" to the list, the grep
command will display its output buffer in the selected window. The default value
of same-window-buffer-names is not nil. It specifies the buffers `*info*',
`*mail*' and `*shell*'. This is why M-x shell normally switches to the `*shell*'
buffer in the selected window. If you delete this element from the value of
same-window-buffer-names, the behavior of M-x shell will change--it will pop
up the buffer in another window instead. You can specify these buffers more
generally with the variable same-window-regexps. Set it to a list of regular
expressions; then any buffer whose name matches one of those regular expressions
is displayed by switching to it in the selected window. (Once again, this
applies only to buffers that normally get displayed for you in a separate
window.) The default value of this variable specifies Telnet and rlogin buffers.
An analogous feature lets you specify buffers which should be displayed in
their own individual frames. See section Special Buffer Frames. Deleting and
Rearranging Windows C-x 0 Delete the selected window (delete-window). That is a
zero. C-x 1 Delete all windows in the selected frame except the selected window
(delete-other-windows). C-x ^ Make selected window taller (enlarge-window).
C-x } Make selected window wider (enlarge-window-horizontally). Drag-Mouse-1
Dragging a window's mode line up or down with Mouse-1 changes window heights.
Mouse-2 Mouse-2 in a window's mode line deletes all other windows in the
frame (mouse-delete-other-windows). Mouse-3 Mouse-3 in a window's mode line
deletes that window (mouse-delete-window). To delete a window, type C-x 0
(delete-window). (That is a zero.) The space occupied by the deleted window is
given to an adjacent window (but not the minibuffer window, even if that is
active at the time). Once a window is deleted, its attributes are forgotten;
only restoring a window configuration can bring it back. Deleting the window has
no effect on the buffer it used to display; the buffer continues to exist, and
you can select it in any window with C-x b.
